#### _8-28-2019_
<audio controls>
  <source src="/Audio/450-8-28-2019.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

The finish line for AI is always being pushed back. First a chess winning AI was thought as impossible, then things like jeapardy etc. Constantly changing. 

## Strong vs Weak AI
* Strong AI: Does the AI have some definition of Conciousness? would it be murder to pull its plug?
* Weak AI: It will always be a program and not intelligent
    * Serves us in some way, seems intelligent but not its own being

## Representation = notation + denotation + computation 
* Notation: Syntax
* Denotation: Meaning/Semantics
* Computation: How we use the other 2 to solve the problem
* If our AI is going to map us a route then we have some decisions: 
    * Do we have an AI use human maps and digitize it and find weird ways between 2 places? Probably not. 
    * Maybe a graph problem: citites/towns are nodes, roads connect them, graph processing algorithms find routes
    * For scalability, need to rethink notation to consider the entire country as a graph and local roads are another aspect

## History of AI
* How long has it been around? 1956 is when it was coined but turing was thinking about the concept in the 40s/50s
    * while the concepts that make up AI were around for a while it started to coelesce in the 50's
* They had thought of a GPS- General Problem Solver back in the 50's
* AI brough an era of excitement that flooded the field with attention and money
    * Failed to meet expectations and was declared dead which resulted in an **AI Winter** until the 90's. "Good luck funding that project" type of attention. 
* Processing eventually got cheap and services like Google gave us data
* Things like neural nets started to work quietly around the country
    * Can't call them neural nets since that failed! Lets call it **Deep Learning**, literally just a rebranding
    * This new attitude brought an AI renaissance, even though nothing has really changed technique wise

## Chapter 2: Rational Agents (Powerpoint slide time)
* Our Focus is on Action and Ideal (versus Human)
* What is an agent: operates in an environment and there are things about the environment that the agent can measure using sensors, then they take some action that affects the environment in some way. 
    * This could be things like cameras effecting how something moves
* Ex: Vacuum agent: 
    * Percepts (Things we care about): Location of vacuum, status of dirt around
    * Actions (How agent acts on environment): Left, right, **suck**, noOp 
    ```js
    function Vacuum-Agent([location, status]) returns an action:
        logic about moving and reacting;
    ```
* Rational Agents want to make best possible decision given data
    * EX: Schwartz recommends a student take a 5 day a week 8am to graduate on time
        * Student decides not to, and graduate a semester later. Rational? Irrational?
        * Given all the data to the student and their own capabilities that could **still** be the most rational decision
* Performance Measure: Utility function: Objective criteria for success of an agents behavior
* Is the vacuum agent rational? We don't know what its performance measure is. How does it measure success?
    * Could measure how much dirt sucked
    * Distance traveled 
    * Speed/efficiency
* We can not say if rational unless we know the performance measure
* PEAS: Perfocmance measure, environment, actuators, sensors
    * P: Function the agent is maximizing
    * E: Formal representation for world states
    * A: Actions that change the state according to a transition model
        * Given the current situation, how successful?
    * S: Observation that allow the agent to infer the world state
* Autonomous taxi: 
    * Performance Measures: 
        * Successful trips
        * Safety, legality
        * reviews
        * profit
        * efficiency in routes
    * Environment: (Complex)
        * Map, nodes etc
    * Actuators: (Actions)
        * Turn wheel
        * Stop
        * Accelerate
        * Signals
        * Lights
    * Sensors: 
        * cameras
        * radar
        * tons of sensor information
* Spam Filter: 
    * Performance: 
        * False positives and false negatives
    * Environment: 
        * Email server where it is running
    * Actuators: 
        * Send alerts
        * Mark spam or not spam
    * Sensors:
        * Incoming email
        * Attachments, text, subject, links etc
* Environment types: 
    * Fully observable vs Partially observable: 
        * Birds eye view of football field seeing everything versus being a robot on the actual field, don't know where every person / detail is. 
    * Deterministic vs stochastic:
        * Knowing the exact consequence of an action versus not knowing what will happen next in the environment due to not having full control, some element of randomness
        * Rolling a dice adds a stochastic piece to a game
    * Episodic vs sequential
        * Each action/decision is its own thing and then the next thing is its own individual problem (Each spam email is its own problem) versus the taxi where each action builds upong its next actoin
    * Static vs dynamic
        * is the world constantly changing? Rubics cube is static between actions versus the autonomous taxi which the world is constantly changing around you
    * Discrete vs continuous
        * finite number of states or positions that we can list and deal with versus something like degrees of freedom being so broad that it needs to be simplified.
        * Chess board by clicking to move versus a robot arm moving it 
    * Single agent versus multi
        * One thing affecting the environment versus multiple
    * Known verus unknown
        * Are the rules of the environment known or are we actively discovering things as we go along

Examples: 
1. Series of word Jumbles: ridgde _ _ _ _ _ _; vble _ _ _ _ 
    * Fully observable? yes
    * Deterministic? Yes
    * Episodic? yes
    * Static? yes
    * Discrete? Discreet
    * Single agent? Typically single agent unless multiple competitors
    * known? Yes we understand the environment
2. Chess with a clock 
    * Fully observable? yes
    * Deterministic? Yes
    * Episodic? yes, each move impacts the next
    * Static? no, not fully dynamic but the score changes with time so it is semi-dynamic
    * Discrete? Yes since we have positions on the board, no fractions- we have all possible moves laid out
    * Single agent? No, multi agent
    * known? Yes we understand the environment
3. Scrabble
    * Fully observable? No partially since we can't see the other persons tiles 
    * Deterministic? No since overall we pull random tiles: Stochastic
    * Episodic? No, sequential: people can take the spot you were planning on placing 
    * Static? yes
    * Discrete? Yes discrete
    * Single agent? No multi
    * known? Mostly known except for maybe when people make up words
4. Autonomous driving:
    * Fully observable? no, partially since we never know the full environment
    * Deterministic? no, Stochastic since elements of the vehicle may not be consistant, break not entirely responseive or ice etc
    * Episodic? No, sequential since every action builds on the last
    * Static? No, very dynamic- Other vehicles and people, weather etc
    * Discrete? No, continuous since breaking and steering has many points
    * Single agent? No, multi
    * known? Yes we (should) understand the environment