#### _9-13-2019_
<audio controls>
  <source src="/Audio/450-9-13-2019.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element. 
</audio>

## Uninformed Search Strategies
* Only using info from problem definition, no knowledge about the goal
* Search strategy defined by picking the order of node expansion
* Breadth first, depth first, iterative deepening, uniform-cost search

### BFS (Slideshow example)
* Expand shallowest 
* Always pick first node in frontier 
* Where do I choose node and how do I add successors to frontier
    * Alwasy choose first node in list and add successors to end
    * Explore all nodes in same level then move onto next level
### DPS (Slideshow example)
* Explore one path as deep as possible in tree before exploring another path
* Down tree instead of across level
* Still pick off front of list
* Add successor to front of list 
* LIFO type of algorithm, explore most recent
* Frontier stays very small throughout entire search, compared to BFS
* Order matters

### Analysis of Search Strategies
* Completeness, Optimality, Time/Space complexity
* Completeness- Does it always find a solution if it exists
* Optimality- Does it always find a least cost solution?
* Time- Number of nodes generated
* Space- max number of nodes in memory
* b- maximum **branching** factor
* d- depth of tree where we find optimal solution
* m- Max length of any path, potentially infinite
### BFS
* Complete? Yes we will find a solution but if branching factor is infinte we could get stuck in one level of tree
    * We simplify but not allowing this
* Optimal? Can we find shortest path to a goal? 
    * We will find that optimal path
* Time- Branching factor to the depth, b^d
* Space- Problem with BFS is we use a lot of space- keep track of all nodes on frontier
    * We have fast processors but limited space
### DFS
* Complete? Maybe. Depends on whether we can keep going forever on branch or if finite
    * Finite path lengths then it is complete
    * Complete in finite spaces
* Optimal? We find the left most solutions before ever finding a shorter path
* Time- b^m, since we are not finding the optimal goal 
    * Time is very bad for DPS 
* Space- linear instead of BFS exponential
    * Small frontier
    * Only keep track of leaf nodes
    * Speed is O(bm), linear space

* Is there a way to merge these and have ultimate search? 
* How about a depth DPS with a Breadth pattern with a cutoff
    * Iterative deepening!
_Image Pending_
### Iterative Deepening
* b^d matters most for complexity analysis
* Gain space complexity since frontier is smaller
* Takes best properties of DFS and BFS, its optimal so we will find closest goal
* Time is b^d
* Space is O(bd)
* DPS is a subroutine, has a cutoff
* Sometimes moves are more expensive than others since paths can have different cost
* BFS might not find cheapest cost with weighted moves, will find shortest path regarding amount of moves

### Uniform Cost Search
* Domain is for environemts with different costs
    * This is because the nodes in the front of the frontier are going to have similar costs
    * BAD name
* Choose frontier node with lowest cost at any point
* When Expanding node- re-sort frontier
* In general this is Dijskras 
* Will we find goal if exists? Only if step cost is positive
    * Cost is assumed positive
* Optimal? Yes
* Time- O(b^(C*/E))
* Space- O(b^(C*/E)) 