#### _9-16-2019_
<audio controls>
  <source src="/Audio/450-9-16-2019.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.</audio>

## Review- Tree search
* Keep explored set, deciding new nodes can be checked in this explored set so that explored nodes never re-enter the frontier

## Informed Search Strategies
* Give algorithm hints about desired states
* Prioritize states that look better 
* Heuristics- Function h(n) estimates the cost of reaching goal from particular node
  * EX- Decide which line to go to at grocery store? How long is the line? Avoid trouble, pick a favorite, how fast are they going? 

### Greedy Best-First Search
* Given any state go to the best looking state from current location
  * Use lowest value of heuristic function h(n)
* It is okay to revisit states as long as they are on different paths
  * Remove-Redundant is applied to this
* **Ongoing Example Slide** Heuristic for the Romania Problem- Starting at Arad First step is to Sibiu since its distance to Bucharest is shortest. Continue picking states based on the shortest distance to Bucharest
* Problems
  * Can get stuck in loops, not **complete**
  * Optimal? No
  * Time- worst case O(b^m)
  * Space- worst case O(b^m)
* How to fix? Keep track of history of travel- keep track of distance already traveled in addition to distance remaining

### A* Search
* Avoid expanding paths that are already expensive
* evaluation function f(n) is the estimated total cost of the path through node n to the goal 
  * f(n) = g(n) + h(n)
* Arad to bucharest again
  * Start at arad- 0 + 366
    * Could Travel to zerind: (actual cost + estimated) 75 + 374
    * Could travel Sibiu: 140+254
    * Could go Tim...: 118+329
  * End up traveling to Sibiu which cost 140
    * Now we expand Sibiu
    * Zerind would be 449 again
    * Tim...: 447
    * Rv: 220+193=413
    * Fav: 239+176=415
  * Pick RV
    * T
    * F
    * P
    * C
    * S
* If a good path has a high estimated path then we will never reach it
  * Need heuristics that **never** overestimates 
  * Under estimating only wastes time, does not waste a good solution
  * Closest To optimal behavior as close an estimate as possible. Close to accurate without overestimating. 
* Straight line distance will not over estimate, there is no shorter path
* If h(n) is admissible then A* is optimal
